Add blog post: Update on the Next MCP Protocol Release (#1514)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: blog/content/posts/2025-09-19-mcp-next-version-update.md

### Statelessness and Scalability

Improving the protocol's statelessness capabilities to enable easier scaling for MCP server deployments in large production environments.

While Streamable HTTP supports stateless deployments of MCP servers, production environments face challenges with initialization sequences and session management. These issues complicate real-world stateless deployments using Streamable HTTP. The Transport Working Group is developing improvements to the transport layer that will support stateless MCP while maintaining straightforward upgrade paths to stateful implementations when needed.

### Server Identity

Implementing server identity through well-known URLs that expose server metadata, improving discovery and authentication mechanisms.

Currently, clients must initialize a connection to an MCP server to obtain server information. This requirement complicates discovery for clients and crawlers (such as registry systems). The planned implementation will use the standardized .well-known format, allowing server authors to expose MCP server information in a static, cacheable, and easily discoverable manner.

### Official Extensions

> Establishing officially endorsed extensions to MCP. Patterns are emerging in the MCP ecosystem that are highly relevant to specific use cases or industry domains. The project will document the most widely adopted extensions and those best suited for particular areas as official _Extensions to MCP_ to encourage broader ecosystem adoption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Establishing officially endorsed extensions for MCP. We see patterns emerging in the MCP ecosystem that are highly relevant to specific use cases and industry domains. While not all of them can be embedded directly into the specification, we recognize that there is still a very real need to provide extensibility points that enable folks to build the experiences they need on top of MCP.

The extensibility project will document the most widely adopted extensions and those best suited for particular areas as official **Extensions to MCP** to encourage broader ecosystem adoption.
```

### SDK Support Standardization

> Introducing a tiering system for MCP SDKs to provide clarity to developers about support levels and maintenance quality. This standardization will be based on factors including specification compliance speed, maintenance responsiveness, and feature completeness. The tiering framework will help users make informed decisions when selecting SDKs for their projects while establishing clear expectations for different levels of support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will be introducing a tiering system for MCP SDKs to provide clarity about support levels and spec conformance. This standardization will be based on factors including specification compliance velocity, maintainer responsiveness, and feature completeness. The tiering framework will help users make informed decisions when selecting SDKs for their projects while also having clear expectations for different levels of support they can get from taking on the dependency.
```

## Call for Contributors

> The project welcomes contributors, both individuals and companies. Contributions are particularly needed in several key areas:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As MCP grows, we welcome contributors - both individuals and companies. Contributions are especially needed in several areas key to the MCP success:
```

### SDK Maintenance

- [**TypeScript SDK**](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/typescript-sdk) - Needs additional maintainers for feature development and bug fixes
- [**Swift SDK**](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/swift-sdk) - Requires attention for Apple ecosystem support
- [Other language SDKs](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/sdk) welcome continued contributions

### Tooling

- [**Inspector**](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/inspector) - Maintainence of the MCP Inspector

> - **Registry** - Backend API and CLI development for the server registry; in particular, Go expertise would be very welcome

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Registry** - Backend API and CLI development for the server registry; Go expertise would be particularly welcome
```

## Input from Client Implementors

> We particularly value feedback from teams implementing widely used MCP clients. Your experience and requirements are crucial for shaping the protocol's evolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MCP is also not just about servers, but also clients - the tools that enable customers to connect to our ecosystem. If you are implementing MCP clients, your experience and understanding of requirements are crucial for shaping the protocol's evolution. We want to hear from you on both protocol capabilities as well as processes that will enable you to scale your work as we add new features.
```
